# Forecasting-Brent-Oil-and-Fuel-Prices-Long-and-Short-Term-Effects-of-Brent-Oil-on-Fuel-Prices
In scope of IE310 – Forecasting Methods and Applications​ lecture, we made our project.

The gradual increase in fuel prices in Turkey has started to arouse curiosity about how prices will change in the future. The price of fuels depends on a number of factors, such as the demand and supply of oil, the type of crude oil used in refining operations, taxes on distributing companies and other companies who transport fuel, the cost of building and maintaining refinery plants and inflation. The price of fuels is also affected by the cost of crude oil and other factors that affect supply and demand. The price of a barrel of crude oil is the primary factor in determining how much fuels will cost at the pump. The price of fuels also depend on how much oil is available and the demand for it. If the supply of oil drops, prices will rise to encourage more people to drill for oil. In addition, the type of crude used to make fuels can affect its price.
Considering Turkey, it is seen that the volatility in foreign oil prices has adversely affected Turkey's economic order and activities due to the extremely limited oil reserves here. In particular, since the oil price in Turkey is indexed to foreign currency, a fluctuation in the oil price the prices of the products of which it is the raw material such as unleaded gasoline and diesel oil. So, it is important to reveal the relationship between crude oil, gasoline, diesel and inflation in Turkey and to evaluate the relationships, both for the implementation of the right monetary policy and the price determination behaviors of companies. In addition, examining the changes in oil prices can also play a role in guiding future energy policies. (Akçağlayan & Gemicioğlu,2021). Considering all these, the aim of this study is, by using monthly data between January 2005 and November 2022 in Istanbul, to investigate the relationship between brent petrol that is a type of crude oil, gasoline, diesel and inflation in Turkey and the effect of this relationship on the prices of all with ARDL model. And then, interpretation of the results obtained. In line with the interpretations made by examining these relations and the effects of these relations, the progress of all in the future periods will be estimated with SARIMA and Holt-Winters methods, since the data have seasonality.
